# S3 Simple Storage Service*

```aws s3api```

[FAQ](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/faqs)
- is an object sore
- size from 0 to 5Tb
- 5Gb per PUT
- for files over 100Mb should consider Multipart upload
- url - https://[bucket-name]-website-[region].amazonaws.com
- supports, tags, event. static web hosting. 
- BitTorrent - you can generate .torrent file

## Classes
- **Standard** durable, available immediately, frequently accessed
- **Standard IA** durable, available immediately, infrequently accessed
- **One Zone IA** same as AI, but data store in one zone
- **Reduced Redundancy Storage** for data that is easily reproducible
- **Glacier** archived data, need to wait 3-5 hours before accessing

## Object
- Key (name)
- Value (data)
- Version ID
- Metadata (data about file, tags)
- Bucket policies, Access Control Lists
- Cross Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)
- Transfer Acceleration

## Settings
**Versioning** - all versions of the file in the same bucket. If you delete current version, the previous version still going to be in the bucket

**Server Access Logging** - keep access logs for audit
[Policy Generator](https://awspolicygen.s3.amazonaws.com/policygen.html)

# S3 Consistency
- S3 provides read-after write consistency for PUT of new object. Meaning if it is a new object and nobody ever asked about it it is going to be available for read immediately.
- HEAD or GET requests of the key before an object will result in eventual consistence. Meaning of anybody asked for that object before, it now will be available after written completely and fully replicated. 
- S3 offers eventual consistency for overwrite PUT and DELETE
- Updates to a single key are atomic

# Security
Buckets created as private by default
Access controls by using:
- Bucket policies - at bucket level
- Access Control Lists - at object level

## Encryption
- In transit (SSl/TSL) - use https to download
- At Rest  - Server Side Encryption 
    - **SSE-S3** s3 managed keys
    - **SSE-KMS**  AWS Key management system
    - **SSE-C** customer provided key
- Client side encryption

If the file is to be encrypted at the upload time, the **x-amz-server-side-encryption** will be included in the request header
- AES256 (SSE-S3)
- aws:kms (SSE-KMS)

If encryption is enforced by bucket policy, then PUT without this header going to be denied.

## HTTPS
Deny all requests not over https (SSL)
```
{
    "Effect": "Deny",
    "Principal":{
        "AWS":"*"
    },
    "Action":"s3:GetObject",
    "Resource":"arn:aws:s3:::yourbucketname/*",
    "Condition": {
        "Bool":{
            "aws:SecureTransport":false
            }
    }
}
```

## S3 Access Control List (ACL)
Obsolete, but can be used when you need to apply to individual objects rather than buckets.


## Lifecycle management
- optimise storage cost
- adhere to data retentions policies
- keeps S3 volumes well-maintained

## Cross Region Replication (CRR)
- security
- complains
- latency
Replicates objects from one region to another. By default using SSL. Don't need to create policies to turn on. 

> Usage example. You copy your logs to a different bucket in different account and transfer an ownership of the file to a destination bucket, so your source bucket has no any permissions, meaning nobody can temper with logs. 

You can replicate objects from a source bucket to only __one__ destination bucket. After S3 replicated an object, the object cannot be replicated again.

- source and destination buckets must have versions enabled
- source and destination buckets must be in different AWS regions
- S3 must have permissions to replicate object from that source bucket to the destination bucket on your behalf 
- if source bucket owner also owns the object, the bucket owner had full permissions to replicate the object, If not, the object owner must grant the bucket owner the READ and READ_ACP permissions via the object ACL.
- works across accounts
- IAM role must have permissions to replicate objects in the destination bucket
- in the replication configuration, you can optionally direct S3 to change the ownership of object replica to the account that owns the destination bucket.

### What is replicated
- any new object created after you add a replication configuration
- unencrypted objects, encrypted with AWS-KMS if enabled 
- object metadata
- object ACL updates
- object tags
- only replicates object in the source bucket for which the bucket has permissions to read objects adn read ACL
- delete marker is replicated

### What is not replicated?
- anything created before CRR is turned on
- objects created with server-side encryption using customer-provided (SSE-C) encryption key
- encrypted objects with AWS-KMS if disabled
- objects in source bucket for which the bucket owner does not have permissions.
- deletes to a particular VERSION of an object (for security purpose, if someone maliciously want to delete particular version)

